- 218th day:
- [[The Party]] are assigned to delve into a corridor to discover a path forward into the temple.
- They find a trap, which they disarm, and arrive at an intersection of three paths.
- They examine the right-hand path first, and find an armoury containing mostly unusable weapons and somewhat usable armour, but do not take any thing.
- They return to the intersection, whereat they are attacked by undead temple guards. [[Ebenhart de Slouew]] turns them using positive energy from his holy symbol.
- They return to the dwarves, defeating one of the warriors in the process.  The dwarves are disappointed that they fled instead of exploring further.
- They return to the intersection and explore the left-hand side instead, which leads to a corridor lined with stone doors and small rooms.  They make no effort to explore these.
- They proceed down a slippery staircase and through another long corridor, ending at a barred stone door, which they open.
- On the other side of the door, they find a tremendous room with pillars.  They detect the presence of creatures lurking on the pillars, but carelessly continue into the room regardless.
- They are ambushed by the creatures, which turn out to be giant lizards.  In the resulting battle, they are caught in a severely disadvantageous place, and [[Wilhelm]] fell.  After fighting a desperate live-or-death struggle, they miraculously manage to disrupt the ambuscade and flee with their lives.  In doing this, they are badly wounded and disgraced.
- They flee back into the corridor, having come whereinto, they close and begin to bar the heavy stone door again to secure themselves.